LLM03: add scenario for compromised build pipeline producing tampered… (#822)
OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications: 2_0_vulns/LLM03_SupplyChain.md

  An LLM operator changes its T&Cs and Privacy Policy to require an explicit opt out from using application data for model training, leading to the memorization of sensitive data.

#### Scenario #14: Compromised Build Pipeline for Model Artifacts

>   An attacker compromises the CI/CD pipeline an organization uses to fine-tune and publish an LLM. For example, through a malicious GitHub Actions dependency, a stolen artifact registry credential, or a tampered build-time secret. During the next training or packaging run, the pipeline produces a tampered model artifact containing a backdoor or biased behavior. Because the artifact is built and signed by the organization's own release infrastructure, it passes downstream provenance checks, internal attestation, and supply-chain scanners that only flag externally sourced components. Similar build-time substitution attacks have affected traditional software supply chains through incidents like the xz-utils backdoor and the Codecov breach; the same attack surface exists wherever model artifacts are produced by automated pipelines without model-specific integrity controls such as reproducible builds, transparency logs, or post-build behavioral evaluation.

Reviewer: _(two fixes in one suggestion since they're on the same line)_

1. Codecov was credential exfiltration via a hosted script ([post-mortem](https://about.codecov.io/apr-2021-post-mortem/)), not build-time artifact substitution, so I'd swap it out. SolarWinds is a great precise match, backdoor injected during the build ([CrowdStrike](https://www.crowdstrike.com/en-us/blog/sunspot-malware-technical-analysis/)) into a validly signed DLL ([Mandiant](https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/evasive-attacker-leverages-solarwinds-supply-chain-compromises-with-sunburst-backdoor)), and [Ultralytics](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-11-ultralytics-attack-analysis/) is the ML-ecosystem analogue.
2. Reproducible training isn't generally technically guaranteed ([PyTorch docs](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/randomness.html)). Cryptographic model signing and artifact hashing ([OpenSSF Model Signing](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/04/04/launch-of-model-signing-v1-0-openssf-ai-ml-working-group-secures-the-machine-learning-supply-chain/), [Sigstore model-transparency](https://github.com/sigstore/model-transparency)) would apply in this case. I think transparency logs and post-build behavioral evaluation are fine to keep.

```suggestion
  An attacker compromises the CI/CD pipeline an organization uses to fine-tune and publish an LLM. For example, through a malicious GitHub Actions dependency, a stolen artifact registry credential, or a tampered build-time secret. During the next training or packaging run, the pipeline produces a tampered model artifact containing a backdoor or biased behavior. Because the artifact is built and signed by the organization's own release infrastructure, it passes downstream provenance checks, internal attestation, and supply-chain scanners that only flag externally sourced components. Similar build-time substitution attacks have affected traditional software supply chains through incidents like the SolarWinds (SUNBURST) build-system compromise and the xz-utils backdoor, and the same class of pipeline compromise has already reached the ML ecosystem in the Ultralytics incident; the same attack surface exists wherever model artifacts are produced by automated pipelines without model-specific integrity controls such as cryptographic model signing and artifact hashing (e.g. OpenSSF Model Signing / Sigstore model-transparency), transparency logs, or post-build behavioral evaluation.
```
